# Description:
A Telegram Bot written in Python language to mirror files on the internet to Google Drive.

# Credits:

- This repository is a fork-clone of the following repositories.

  > [lzzy12's python-aria-mirror-bot](https://github.com/lzzy12/python-aria-mirror-bot)

  > [afdulfauzan's python-aria-mirror-bot](https://github.com/afdulfauzan/python-aria-mirror-bot)

  > [magneto261290's magneto-python-aria](https://github.com/magneto261290/magneto-python-aria)

    All credits goes to the maintainers of the above repositories.


- This repository utilises torrent trackers from [ngosang's trackerslist](https://github.com/ngosang/trackerslist) repository.

# Supported Features:
- Mirror Torrents
- Mirror Direct Links
- Mirror Telegram Files
- Upload Files after Archiving/Unarchiving
- Download and Upload Progress, Speeds and ETAs
- Docker Support
- Uploading To Team Drives
- Index Link Support
- Shortener Support
- Service Account Support
- Mirror 'youtube-dl' Supported Links
- Mirror Files on MEGA.NZ (Not Very Stable)

## Supported Archive File Types
```
ZIP RAR TAR 7z ISO WIM CAB GZIP BZIP2 APM ARJ CHM CPIO CramFS DEB DMG FAT HFS LZH LZMA LZMA2 MBR MSI MSLZ NSIS NTFS RPM SquashFS UDF VHD XAR Z
```

# Deploying:

## Prerequisites

- Install Python3 (debian based distros).
```
sudo apt install python3
```

- Install Docker by following the [Official Docker Docs](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/).

- Install dependencies for running the setup scripts.
```
pip3 install -r requirements-cli.txt
```

## Cloning and Setting Up Config File

- Clone the Repo:
```
git clone https://github.com/ksssomesh12/tg-mirror-bot
cd tg-mirror-bot
```

- Copy and Edit the Config file:
```
cp config_sample.env config.env
nano config.env
```

- Remove the first line saying:
```
_____REMOVE_THIS_LINE_____=True
```
Fill up rest of the fields. Meaning of each field are discussed below:
- **BOT_TOKEN** : The telegram bot token that you get from [@BotFather](https://t.me/botfather).
- **GDRIVE_FOLDER_ID** : This is the folder ID of the Google Drive folder to which you want to upload all the mirrors.
- **DOWNLOAD_DIR** : The path to the folder where the downloads will be downloaded locally, before uploading to Google Drive.
- **OWNER_ID** : The Telegram user ID (not username) of the owner of the bot. DO NOT put this in double quotes.
- **DOWNLOAD_STATUS_UPDATE_INTERVAL** : A short interval of time in seconds after which the Mirror progress message is updated (5 seconds at least).
- **AUTO_DELETE_MESSAGE_DURATION** : Interval of time (in seconds), after which the bot deletes its message (and command message) which is expected to be viewed instantly (set to -1 to never automatically delete messages).
- **TELEGRAM_API** : This is to authenticate to your telegram account for downloading Telegram files. You can get this from [here](https://my.telegram.org). DO NOT put this in double quotes.
- **TELEGRAM_HASH** : This is to authenticate to your telegram account for downloading Telegram files. You can get this from [here](https://my.telegram.org). DO put this in double quotes.
- **USER_SESSION_STRING** : Session string generated by running:
```
python3 generate_string_session.py
```
- **TELEGRAPH_TOKEN** : Telegraph Token generated by running:
```
python3 generate_telegraph_token.py
```
### Optional Fields (Leave empty if unsure)

- **IS_TEAM_DRIVE** : Set to "true" if GDRIVE_FOLDER_ID is from a Team Drive else set to "false" or leave it empty.
- **USE_SERVICE_ACCOUNTS**: Whether to use service accounts or not. For this to work see  "Using service accounts" section below.
- **MEGA_API_KEY**: API Key of your MEGA.NZ account. Get it from [MEGA SDK Page](https://mega.nz/sdk).
- **MEGA_EMAIL_ID**: Email ID of your MEGA.NZ account.
- **MEGA_PASSWORD**: Password of your MEGA.NZ account.
- **STOP_DUPLICATE_MIRROR**: Set this to "true", if you want to check for duplicate files (using file name, and not file hash) in Google Drive matching the requested download and stop the download if found any.
- **BLOCK_MEGA_LINKS**: Set this to "true", if you want to disable downloading of MEGA.NZ files.
- **INDEX_URL** : Refer to [GDIndex repo](https://github.com/maple3142/GDIndex/). The URL should not have any trailing '/'.
- **SHORTENER**: URL of the Shortener.
- **SHORTENER_API**: API Key of the Shortener.

        Supported Shorteners:
        
        > exe.io
        > gplinks.io
        > shrinkme.io
        > urlshortx.com
        > shortzon.com
        
        Additionally, some other shorteners are also supported.

**NOTE:**
- You can limit the maximum concurrent downloads by changing the value of 'MAX_CONCURRENT_DOWNLOADS' in 'aria.sh'. By default, it's set to '3'.
- You can limit the maximum download speed by changing the value of 'MAX_DOWNLOAD_SPEED' in 'aria.sh'. By default, it's set to '0' (unlimited).

## Getting Google OAuth API Credential File

- Visit the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials).
- Go to the OAuth Consent tab, fill it, and save.
- Go to the Credentials tab and click Create Credentials -> OAuth Client ID
- Choose Other and Create.
- Use the download button to download your credentials.
- Move that file to the root of mirror-bot, and rename it to 'credentials.json'.
- Visit [Google API page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/library)
- Search for Drive and enable it if it is disabled.
- Finally, run the script to generate the token file (token.pickle) for Google Drive:
```
pip install google-api-python-client google-auth-httplib2 google-auth-oauthlib
python3 generate_drive_token.py
```
## Deploying Locally using Docker

- Start Docker Daemon (skip if already running):
```
sudo dockerd
```
- Build Docker Image:
```
sudo docker build . -t tg-mirror-bot
```
- Run the Image:
```
sudo docker run tg-mirror-bot
```

# Deploy to Heroku Manually:

## Creating a Private Repo

- Create your GitHub account (skip if you already have one).
- Open [this link](https://github.com/new/import) to import this repo to a new repo that will be created and owned by you.
- Clone this existing repo to your new private repo by pasting [this repo's url](https://github.com/ksssomesh12/tg-mirror-bot) in the clone url field and enter any name for your repo (for our reference, your-private-repo).
- Clone your private repo locally and delete the '.gitignore' file:
```
git clone https://github.com/username/your-private-repo
cd your-private-repo
rm -rfv .gitignore
```

**NOTE:** Replace 'username' with your GitHub username and 'your-private-repo' with the name of your private repo. Authenticate into GitHub, if prompted. If you have enabled 2FA in GitHub, you may not be able to authenticate. In that case, create a Personal Access Token, with 'repo-only' access, under Developer Settings in GitHub Settings and use it in the password field to authenticate in git.
- Commit and push the changes made to the remote GitHub repo:
```
git add .
git commit -m "removed gitignore file"
git push -f origin master
```
- Now, set up the config file by following [this section](https://github.com/ksssomesh12/tg-mirror-bot#Cloning-and-Setting-Up-Config-File) and get the OAuth credential file by following [this section](https://github.com/ksssomesh12/tg-mirror-bot#Getting-Google-OAuth-API-Credential-File).

**NOTE:** The cloned repo's visibility must be set to private, as this method requires the sensitive files (credentials.json, config.env, token.pickle, authorized_chats.txt, log.txt) containing personal data to be in the repo to be successfully deployed on Heroku; setting repo's visibility to 'public' might compromise personal data. Alternatively, you can set up a git repo on your local machine by cloning this repo and sync it with Heroku Git remote repo.

## Creating a Heroku App

- Create a [free Heroku account](https://id.heroku.com/signup/login).
- Install Heroku CLI:
```
sudo snap install --classic heroku
```
- Login into your Heroku account:
```
heroku login
```
- Visit [Heroku Dashboard](https://dashboard.heroku.com) and create a new app with any name(for our reference, your-mirror-bot) and with any region you prefer, for your app to be served from.
- In the Deploy tab of your app dashboard, select  GitHub in 'Deployment Method' and connect and authorize your Heroku account to access your public and private repos on GitHub.
- Search and select your private repo to connect to your Heroku app.
- (Optional) In auto deploy section, select a repo branch (master) to auto deploy the app from, if any new commit is made to the selected branch on GitHub.
- In manual deploy section, select a repo branch (master) to deploy the app and hit the Deploy button.
- Wait for the build to finish and ignore any errors that popped up during the build process.
- Change the stack for the app using Heroku CLI:
```
heroku stack:set container --app your-mirror-bot
```
- Now, go to the manual deploy section in the Deploy tab of your Heroku app dashboard and hit the Deploy button.
- Check for any errors in the build process and wait until it completes.

## Run/Terminate the App
You can run/terminate the app by allocating/deallocating dynos to the app.

- Using Dashboard:
In the app dashboard, under resources tab, use the 'Edit dyno formation' button in Dynos section to change the working state of the app.

- Using CLI:

To Run:
```
heroku ps:scale worker=1 --app your-mirror-bot
```
To Terminate:
```
heroku ps:scale worker=0 --app your-mirror-bot
```
To Check Status:
```
heroku ps --app your-mirror-bot
```

# Bot Commands:
- **help** - To get the help message
- **mirror** - Mirror the provided link to Google Drive
- **unzipmirror** - Mirror the provided link and if the file is in archive format, it is extracted and then uploaded to Google Drive
- **tarmirror** - Mirror the provided link and upload in archive format (.tar) to Google Drive
- **watch** - Mirror through 'youtube-dl' to Google Drive
- **tarwatch** - Mirror through 'youtube-dl' and upload in archive format (.tar) to Google Drive
- **cancel** - Reply with this command to the source message, and the download will be cancelled
- **cancelall** - Cancels all running tasks (downloads, uploads, archiving, unarchiving)
- **status** - Shows the status of all downloads and uploads in progress
- **list** - Searches the Google Drive folder for any matches with the search term and presents the search results in a Telegraph page
- **clone** - Copy folders in Google Drive (owned by someone else) to your Google Drive 
- **del** - Delete files in Google Drive matching the given string
- **stats** - Shows the stats of the machine that the bot is hosted on
- **authorize** - Authorize a group chat or, a specific user to use the bot (can only be used by the bot owner)
- **log** - Sends the log file of the bot (can be used to analyse crash reports, if any)

**NOTE:** The above listed command descriptions can be copied and pasted in 'edit bot commands' section, when editing the bot settings with [@BotFather](https://t.me/botfather).

# Using Service Accounts:

[What is a service account?](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts)

Many thanks to [AutoRClone](https://github.com/xyou365/AutoRclone) for the scripts.

**NOTE:** Using service accounts is only recommended while uploading to a Team Drive.

## Generating Service Accounts

Let us create only the service accounts that we need.

    Prerequisite:
    
    > In 'config.env' file, set the below environment variable,
    
          USE_SERVICE_ACCOUNTS = "true"

**WARNING:** Abuse of this feature is not the aim of this project, and we do **NOT** recommend that you make a lot of projects, just one project and 100 sa allow you plenty of use, it is also possible that over abuse might get your projects banned by google.

**NOTE:** 1 service account can copy around 750 GB/day. 1 project can make 100 service accounts so that's 75 TB/day, for most users this should easily suffice.
```
python3 gen_sa_accounts.py --quick-setup 1 --new-only
```
A folder named accounts will be created which will contain keys for the service accounts

**NOTE:** If you have created SAs in past from this script, you can also just re-download the keys by running:
```
python3 gen_sa_accounts.py --download-keys project_id
```

## Add all the service accounts to the Team Drive
- Run:
```
python3 add_to_team_drive.py -d SharedTeamDriveSrcID
```

# 'youtube-dl' Authentication using '.netrc' file:
For using your premium accounts in youtube-dl, edit the netrc file (in the root directory of this repository) according to following format:
```
machine host login username password my_youtube_password
```
where host is the name of extractor (e.g. youtube, twitch). Multiple accounts of different hosts can be added each separated by a new line.
